and T4.
Thank you.
Just about any subject you want to apply it to, dementia, epilepsy, sunburn, traumatic injury, chronic conditions of all sorts, arthritis, asthma, pimples, acne,
all kinds of stress conditions, all the cellular levels, everything from personality problems all the way down to whether a cell is inflamed.
This isn't directly related to progesterone, but a quote of yours that I send to a lot of people is, I forgot what newsletter it was, but you say something like using progesterone alone is not a good approach.
Like you have to figure out what the problem is, and usually that's related to low thyroid function.
And so if a problem isn't miraculously kind of solved by progesterone, thyroid was probably the next thing to investigate.
Yeah, if you think you're dying of a migraine or a seizure, progesterone itself, a good dose of that can very quickly bring you out of the problem, but then you have to figure out what it was that put you into that unstable condition that needed progesterone.
And then last thing on this, some people are saying like, you know, if your nutrition is so good, why do you need to add hormones?
And maybe a good response to that would be our environment is so terribly awful that maybe just even taking thyroid isn't enough kind of defense from kind of the onslaught of metabolic problems we're faced with day to day.
Yeah, even thyroid and milkshakes and quesadillas aren't always enough to make up for the horrors that are imposed on us and some of the natural defects of the environment.
Like we probably should live more like naked mole rats sleeping in burrows in family clusters where we would be producing a proper amount of carbon dioxide so that we would be soaked in carbon dioxide for a good part of our lives,
making up for the natural imbalance created by geological changes.
I read a book recently about how people, the difference in sleep between these days and back in the Middle Ages and apparently people back then were sleeping in barnyards with animals, 15 to 20 people all huddled together.
And I guess the rate of degenerative disease, maybe that's one reason why it was much lower.
They were living like naked mole rats.
Yeah, having a cow and a pig in the house when you're asleep.
It makes life more fun.
You completely stole that out of my brain. I was going to make a joke about a long time ago. You said like an optimal society would include our animal friends and I was going to make a joke about that and then you said it, Georgie, that's really wild.
That's how they used to live apparently.
It was a book on anthropology. I don't remember the author's name right now but he said that our current mode of life is drastically different and judging from the archaeological findings and the examinations they did on bones and whatever other records they could unearth,
he's saying that apparently their lifestyle was conducive to much better health. They didn't have these diseases back then.
Yeah, I think carbon dioxide is always a basic factor of stress relief or stress production depending on the concentration.
I have a question. Difference between thyroid and progesterone. Is there anything thyroid does uniquely that progesterone either completely does not do or is much weaker or less capable of achieving?
You can uncouple the mitochondria by increasing your thyroid temporarily to shift the ratio towards carbon dioxide from lactate
and progesterone tends to stabilize the mitochondria in an efficient well-coupled condition.
So like to get rid of moles or skin cancers or such, a temporary officially overdose of thyroid hormone.
I've seen fairly large uterine fibroids for example when someone was willing to stay slightly hyperthyroid keeping a resting pulse around 110.
For three months a large fibroid would shrink permitting a pregnancy to proceed and the same with getting rid of other types of tumors and things that require corrective adjustments of the tissues.
But I thought that progesterone is thermogenic. Wouldn't that imply that it also uncouples to a degree?
I think it achieves it by reducing loss as much as by maintaining, preventing the bypass of the mitochondria.
It keeps the mitochondria going efficiently but at the same time it's reducing nitric oxide in the skin and preventing unwanted heat loss.
Okay, great stuff. So this is our first question and the person quotes Heraclitus and the quote is "Polymethy does not teach intelligence of things."
And then their question is "Much learning does not teach understanding. You can't really know something unless you experience it. Are Ray's thoughts analogous to this?"
Yeah, you have to at least imagine experiencing it. The typical way of indoctrination and school learning is by way of formulas rather than at least an imagined experience.
Literature and art should teach you to get your nervous system in the habit of thinking experientially rather than in terms of algorithms and rote formulas.
Do you think the sterilization of learning, in other words, everybody's been turning to not just a bookworm but a very rigid bookworm, may account for the fragmentation of society?
Basically everybody's learned but nobody really knows much about the real world these days.
Yeah, true kind of learning always takes into account our world in common and so that is always an essential aspect of any little thing that you might know.
For example, how to play a music instrument or how to make a fancy horse saddle or how to build a building. It always has to take into account the overall world that we have in common.
So basically by preventing people from having common experiences, they essentially guarantee that we can understand each other no matter how much we read about each other.
Great stuff. Okay, this one says, "Does Ray believe that some principles are worth dying for?"
I don't know.
I knew you were going to say that. Why?
Who wrote the principle? Whose principle is it? You have to look at the metaphysics behind the principle. Make sure it isn't based on false assumptions and false metaphysics.
So dying as an alternative to getting a vaccine is not rational?
Is there a connection?
Say a hypothetical thing where it was like death or getting a vaccine. Despite the horrors of getting a vaccine, killing yourself or something would not be a reasonable option.
No. It's better to be wounded and deformed by the vaccine than to be dead.
I was going to say, "War is old men talking and young men dying." So if somebody else wrote the principle, I'm with Ray on this one. You want to be very careful whose principles you're trying to die for.
Right. So often there's an evil ulterior motive behind the principle.
Just to play devil's advocate, what about the phrase, "Some things are worse than death"? What if life was so much suffering after getting maimed by a vaccine?
I think your organism takes care of that. The stress hormones rise to the point that it simply finishes off all of the processes.
I want to go on to this next question. You know how W.D. Dinklage was trying to search for the death hormone? Do you feel like you figured out anything that he did not figure out?
Oh yeah. There's no death hormone. It's just the death struggle of the organism against these bad environmental problems.
And perceiving that there's no progress, right? Because if it's a great struggle but the organism senses that there's progress, then this shouldn't necessarily lead to death.
No. Those processes are really last-ditch survival attempts. The zooming up of your growth hormone and prolactin and corticotropin, all of those are well-meaning survival attempts.
But they just accelerate all of the poor adaptations we're making to an inadequate environment.
So those pituitary hormones are increasing, but maybe they cause prolonged hypoxia and that leads to death? Is that right?
Well, all of our adaptations are to a detective environment to one degree or another.
If you have to change your physiology to fit into the environment, the bigger those changes are, the more your pituitary hormones are involved
and the more it's diverting you from what you would really like to be doing.
So the growth hormone has potential benefit, but when you're forced to keep secreting it along with ACTH and serotonin and so on,
the outcome wasn't intended, but what it means is that you have adapted yourself. For example, secreting more and harder insoluble collagen,
turning yourself into a tanned piece of leather makes you tough in a sense that you can stand up to the environment a little longer,
but it isn't a good adaptive course to take.
If we can improve the environment, have very good nutrition, very good carbon dioxide rich atmosphere,
a good amount of temperature and sunlight and so on, then we can start mobilizing our intentional adaptive processes
and in that environment, the effort to adapt and become something else will tend to dissolve the hardened collagen,
remove the calcium from the soft tissues, put it back in your bones and reconstruct a living vital organism.
So the adaptive intention in a bad environment leads you into degeneration. In a good environment, it leads you to restoration.
I was going to say, like three or four years ago, there was a doctor and he linked something on Twitter and it was an article on fasting increasing growth hormone
and he tweeted, "This is what Ray Peat does not understand," and he was inferring like the fasting was increasing the growth hormone
and you want to increase your growth hormone and I just had a little chuckle.
Okay, next question.
That recent study on reversing the aging of the human immune system, they specifically administered DHEA to block the pro-aging hormones of growth hormone
and I strongly suspected the benefits that they saw from these treatments were actually due to the DHEA,
but it still pays off that they actually were aware that growth hormone has strongly pro-aging effects.
So you may want to send him this article or reply to his tweet because it's pretty recent. It's from last year and it was in humans.
Great stuff. I will do. Okay, so let's get to this next one.
What is it about Aristotle that makes him a good scientist and what of his methods did the medieval scholastics fail to adopt?
The idea of becoming, I think he took seriously Heraclitus' basic view of the world as everything being in process.
So I see Aristotle as a Heraclitian process philosopher, totally breaking away from the platonic essentialism of an abstract finished universe.
So he didn't have a good data collection system, maybe the best in the world at the time, but it wasn't adequate to create 20th century physics quite.
I remember an old interview, maybe it was John Berkhausen and he was like, "Ray, why do you think William Blake was so smart and you said he didn't go to school?"
Is there a similar thing for Aristotle? Is there any way you can figure out how he knew so much or his good orientation?
No.
Okay, fair enough. Okay, Georgie, interrupt me at any time, but okay, this is the next one from Steve.
He says, "How does the intangible of stress become a tangible phenomenon in the cell? Where does it start?"
Reduction of energy, I think, is the general thing. Not getting enough energy to do what it needs to adapt.
So it sends out signals that it wants more energy and that turns on emergency organismic level processes like making more ACTH and cortisol to bring up the blood sugar
and get past the temporary crisis. But the cell ultimately needs to improve its use of oxygen and glucose to properly restore the energy it needs.
Just a note, thanks for that, Ray. Just a note, all the super chats or super stickers, whatever they're called, will be donated to Ray. So just to let you guys know.
Thank you, Ray. Okay, this next one, we are going through these. Okay, it says, "How does Dr. Peete organize his reading and research?
Given he reads across various topics but is able to put disparate yet related things together, does he have some sort of note-taking system?" Basically, I'm intrigued. Okay, you get the point. How do you organize your research, Ray?
My notes over the years are the most disorganized thing you can imagine. Occasionally, they're helpful to remind me where I was, but definitely not like having a card file of things that I've read,
but just going from one thing that interests me to another.
Okay, so this is shocking to me. So when somebody emails you about something and then you reply to them and then you attach like eight abstracts, you're going to PubMed and finding those abstracts or what?
Yeah, some of them I've put into my computer over the years for different reasons, but usually I find things on PubMed that will answer a person's questions.
Interesting.
Even though I consider PubMed to be largely a propaganda source, it's a leaky propaganda source.
I want to second that, Ray's method. Over the years, I've struggled with many different methods and eventually realized that the only thing that really worked was effectively acting like a child, just following whatever interests you at the current moment in time.
At least for me, synchronicity seems to play a big role. Things that I'm reading currently, somehow miraculously in a few minutes later, I find other things that pop up that are disparate but similar, to use the quote from the person.
Have you noticed the same thing, Ray? That if you're reading on a certain topic, basically a similar concept will pop up in another article or another source of information without you actually searching for it?
Yep. That contributes to my basic view of how the brain and the universe work. There's sort of a magic synchronicity, probably just because it seems like synchronicity or magic, just because we aren't clearly aware of the mechanisms that make it happen.
Have you noticed that children's play is structured very similarly? They basically base everything quite naturally based on interest, right? They're not being told what to do when they're little and their attention shifts pretty quickly, but they always seem to be heavily engaged into what they're doing, almost as if in a state of meditation.
Yeah, and with kids, their choices of foods tend to work the same way. They'll eat a lot of something once and then maybe not touch it again for a month, but they're responding to something in their physiology, and I think that is true in their play.
So, have you had similar experiences as an adult with food, which is related to the next question that I think Danny is going to read? In other words, sometimes you eat a lot of something and then the next week you encounter the same thing and you're like, "I don't really feel like eating at all."
Yeah, I think it works the same in adults sometimes, but more often in children.
Georgia, can you push your microphone back a little bit? It's for some reason clipping a little bit. Not close to you, farther away.
Oh, okay. Like this?
Yeah, or if you move the actual unit a little bit back. Yeah, okay, good. Thanks for that.
Okay, so speaking of that question, so this person made sure to clarify and they said they weren't asking this so they could copy you. They were just curious. And so this person says, "Can Ray go over what his past week of eating has looked like? Meal examples, new preferences and tastes, or new experiments with food/meal ideas?"
They tend to cycle. Today, so far, I've had an omelet, milk, orange juice and coffee, and then some leftover mushroom soup and carrot salad and orange juice and coffee for the afternoon.
Yesterday, I had an appetite for a cheese taco, a toasted taco with melted cheese on it. It just is what I feel like I have an appetite for that particular day.
I think our last chat with you increased tortilla sales by like a thousand percent all over the world.
Ray, you're responsible for the inflation of food we're seeing all over the US.
I noticed that many years ago when I discovered that the Safeway store was selling chicken necks at something like a dollar a pound. And I found two or three thyroid glands in every package, a couple of pounds of necks.
I mentioned that in my nutrition classes and never saw a package of necks again. They constantly were buying them up and then Safeway stopped selling them, I guess, when the word got out that they contained thyroid glands.
You've got to be careful about those liver sources and other things that you need to feel well.
Yeah, for sure.
Okay, next question here. And then I was interested in, after these questions, asking you some things just about, of course, the culture stuff that we always go over.
But I thought this would be a nice break from just getting questions from Georgie and I. Okay, where... Now I've lost my place in these questions.
Thanks everybody for watching. Give this episode a like. Again, all super chats or super stickers or whatever are donated to Ray. And sincere appreciation for Ray and Georgie being here and taking their time to do this for everybody.
Okay, building off of the idea that when thyroid is functioning properly, you can think any way you want to about anything. Can you explain more about the physiological aspects of how our energetic state influences our thoughts and perception?
Is there an energetic component to thoughts that matches biological energy, or is it more so that a higher energetic state? And I think I clipped this question, but you get the idea.
Yeah, I think the high energy state is a relaxed state of readiness. And the infant brain with a very high metabolic rate easily goes into complete relaxed sleep and replenishes its energy.
So it's ready for another episode of very intense activity. That kind of episodic energy burst, I think, tend to give you an image-oriented, kind of chunky approach
to reality and the problems you're thinking of, rather than just doggedly assembling bits and constructing a knowledge system out of learned bits. It gives you an animal quality to your episodes of learning and thinking.
And like ruminating on the past, so that's that junky quality you're talking about, like just thinking about things that have literally no importance and can't move you forward?
Well, sometimes it's necessary to think about where you've been to better understand why you want to go in a certain direction. So ruminating can be constructive.
One last thing. So I think you specifically talking about that quote, somebody emailed you about trauma a long time ago. And you basically said, if the toxicants and the energy substances and things are right, you can kind of think how you want to about past events.
And so that just includes kind of intermittently thinking about things that have happened in the past. That doesn't mean you reject what's happened to you. You're just not stuck on them. Is that right?
Yes. My view of memory is that it's a developmental state. Even though it passes in a flash, still it changes our development all through the organism.
Every little so-called memory, memorable experience that we have is changing the structure of our organism. And it's simply scanning the state of our organism when you're ruminating or considering the meaning of the past.
It's all present in the state of your organism. So when you're remembering, you're really being present to yourself.
Interesting. Okay, this one is, may you ask Ray what he thinks about some people being more subservient to authority than others? Why do some have this innate rebellious attitude while others follow the narrative no questions asked?
It has a lot to do with your metabolic energy, how much DHEA and progesterone and pregnenolone are circulating through your system.
So you feel resilience enough to reject every little thing that seems unhealthy.
Great stuff. I didn't know if this was true, but this next one says thoughts on Chernobyl steadily reactivating? Is that right?
Say it again.
It says thoughts on Chernobyl steadily reactivating.
Is that a thing?
I'm not sure what it means. The area around Chernobyl continues to be extremely contaminated and deadly.
There were a few articles, I think it was last week, that said that the detectors that are there in the sealed reactor that is under a concrete sarcophagus, they're detecting levels of radiation that are increasing and can only be produced if the chain reaction is somehow intensifying.
Definitely possible. Molten fuel, for example, is moving around.
They were thinking of essentially sending a robot in there and basically sealing the actual reactor, the smaller portion of it, with graphite, is what they said, to sort of stop the chain. They will try to stop the chain reaction, but they're also kind of hedging their bets and saying it may actually trigger a nuclear blast.
We're not promising any results.
Okay, we'll just do a few more of these and then we'll let you go at, well it's my time, your 6.30 time for sure, Ray, so we won't keep you too long.
Okay, how to stop, slow down body hair and beard hair growth. Could topical progesterone work or something else?
There were studies published in France in the 1960s of topical progesterone showed women with definite sideburns and whiskers and masculine chest hair through topical progesterone.
Two or three months later, showed them with a feminine, hairless face and chest.
And same thing for a man, right? That would be the estrogen maybe activating the adrenals and causing the skin to kind of be androgenized, is that right?
Yeah, when you're deficient in those protective hormones, especially pregnenolone and progesterone, then you're likely to overdrive the stress hormones and come out with too much androgens, especially in women and too much estrogen in men.
On just an update, on the Coke here, now all of the bottles say Reducido Azúcar and then I talked to the dude that works at the Etienda and he said all of the Coke now is like that in Mexico.
And so that is a thing now, like they've just changed the formula of Coke and all of it tastes different now and the dude confirmed that, just to give an update for anybody who cares.
So that is a very sad day.
What kind of sugar is this?
I wish I had written it down, but it was like a mixture of new types of sugar. This is totally new to you, Ray?
Yeah, I haven't heard it at all.
I told the guy it was Muy Malo and he laughed.
Okay, so let's get to these last, I skipped over a few, but let's get to, okay this was a popular one. Is there a way to remineralize teeth and heal cavities?
Basically no. If the enamel is just slightly eroded and the protein framework is still there, yeah it can be very nicely remineralized.
But once the decay has gone through the thin layer of dentine and has broken down the dentine, gone through the thin layer of enamel and entered the dentine, then the tooth from the inside can close off the progress.
If you have a very stable hormonal vitamin D calcium balance, the tooth from the inside is constantly renewing the cytoplasm in the dentine channels and will close off,
create resistance to the advancing cavity, but I've never heard of it being able to fill a cavity from the inside. It can simply stop the progress.
Have you seen that study that got published in 2018? I think it was basically they showed that applying aspirin topically to the tooth despite being acidic actually led to tooth regeneration. I forget how much was regenerated, but it reversed that process and some actual regeneration happened.
Was it in the dentine or just the enamel surface?
That I don't know. It may have been just a very shallow cavity and that's why it regenerated. But I remember it was aspirin, it was topical solution and they were surprised too. They thought that because it's acidic, it should actually erode the tooth even more, but in fact it actually led to some regeneration.
I think the acid theory of tooth decay has tremendous weakness. The idea that bacteria just make an acid, I think it's much more complicated than that involving antibodies and subtler handling of the minerals.
You may have seen it, there was a study earlier than that back in 2015 which said that unbeknownst to most people, competitive athletes have extremely poor dental health and that study tied that poor dental health to low thyroid function because of the constant exertion they were having.
I didn't see that one, but thyroid is the main regulator of the health of your saliva and the quality of your saliva really is in charge of what happens to your teeth on the outside and it tends to correspond to the vitality of the pulp chamber which maintains the dentine from the inside.
But definitely the thyroid is the main hormone governing the quality of saliva.
Great stuff. So I was thinking for the last 25 minutes we would just tune in to the Great Reset and is there anything new that, of course there is, but is there anything to focus on that's happening that's mildly interesting or reveals something that they're doing?
Oh, the established lies are coming apart and resistance is starting to show some effects.
Do you mean the Wuhan lab stuff?
Yeah. Ron Unz, he has a good article showing the value of two articles, different theories whether it was a lab accident or not, but then he gives a third interpretation that everyone seems to be carefully avoiding
which is the long established germ warfare policies of the United States and Unz goes through the facts that align so much more perfectly with this third option
than with just the lab accident or not theories.
There's another article on the site, a recent one on his site which says that basically it was a failed bioweapon attack on China launched by the United States and when the Chinese didn't take the bait, then basically the US said, well we have an opportunity to use it on somebody else, who would that be?
Well, our population and the rest of the world and we're going to use this to tighten control for whatever other reason we have.
Yeah, and Iran really was the second target, just the elite politicians in Iran had a very terrible attack right after China.
I think one misapprehension of the germ warfare people, they really seem to have believed that the ACE2 enzyme, they thought it was the receptor that let the virus attack and enter cells.
I think they really believed that and the fact that the Chinese have about 30% higher expression of the ACE2 enzyme, especially in women.
Women have a higher expression than in men and in both sexes, the expression of ACE2 decreases with aging.
I think the fact that the Chinese have such a thick expression of this ACE2 anti-angiotensin enzyme,
I think that led people to believe that the Chinese would suffer much more intensely from this virus than Americans or other racial groups.
But in fact, the ACE2 is what defends us against inflammatory attacks such as virus.
I guess the most ACE2, rather than being the most susceptible to catching the virus, they're the ones with the most powerful means for resisting the inflammatory consequences.
So, young women are the most resistant, but it happens that the Chinese, heredity gives them an especially high resistance.
I'm not saying it wasn't produced in a lab, but isn't the idea that it's a bioweapon kind of conflict with the idea that it's not harmful at all?
I mean, the activation of the renin-angiotensin system, but that all of this stuff is just way overboard and just about control.
Yeah, Rona Unz talks about that, that it wasn't intended to kill many people and didn't really kill lots of people.
But it was a nuisance, just like an effective cold virus.
But the theory was that it would give Chinese 30% more colds than it would give Americans.
Oh, interesting. And for this whole thing to work, would they really had to have created something?
I don't buy into it, but the alt-narrative that there's nothing, you know what I mean?
Actually, a lot of major, I think, Patrick Tempone, he keeps listing people saying that there is no virus, but isn't the whole thing now that, what's that word they say for making viruses?
It's in the news all the time now. Do you know what I'm talking about? Fauci keeps saying it. Like they'll enhance a virus or whatever.
Oh, gain of function.
Yeah, gain of function. But anyways, you're saying they had to have created something, right?
Yeah. Luc Montagnier has clearly expressed that he, in his lab work, understands how you create a gain of function.
You find some species difference, like the human expression of the ACE2 enzyme was chosen as a target.
And so they just adjusted the enzyme to be able to stick more firmly, adjusted the virus so that it would stick more firmly to that enzyme.
And the people are arguing against the whole existence of viruses are in a way onto something because the mechanism by which we maintain our genetic and physiological interactions among the various parts of our body
that the circulatory systems are carrying exosomes in which our cells put out genetic messages that are sent to other cells.
But this apparatus is the same one that the viruses use to replicate the viral message and in size and structure, our exosomes are in most ways indistinguishable from the things that are classified as viruses.
And so if you give a vaccine or catch a virus and get the nucleic acids into some of your cells, those cells experiencing distress will increase their production of exosomes,
which pick up relevant bits of nucleic acid and proteins and lipids and package them in a little virus-like package, which those exosomes then travel to different parts of the body and are excreted in sweat, in the breath, in the urine and so on.
And so we are creating things that function like viruses and look like viruses and are made in the same system in the cell that replicate viruses.
So I think the people that deny that there is such a thing as a virus are really just helping to call attention to the probable origin of all viruses was the mixture of external transmitted nucleic acids,
basically transmitted, excreted and transmitted in the form of exosomes as a natural physiological adaptive process.
Aren't the mRNA vaccines essentially an artificial replication of that whole exosome paradigm but in a really harmful manner?
Yeah. I don't know how aware the virus people were of exosomes, but that's something that is completely left out of most of the discussion.
In fact, the vaccine nucleic acid, the messenger RNA, can be packaged in the exosomes and transmitted to other cells, including our germ cells and into our sweat and transmitted to people we touch or breathe on.
Speaking of that…
A couple more things on Montagnier. He said as early as March 2020 that the virus is most certainly man-made after having studied it for a couple of months.
And he basically said this virus contains sequences that are not known to occur in any natural virus of the same category of the coronavirus, including a protein sequence that is known to be part of the HIV virus.
And then, of course, immediately French press started publishing articles saying he must have run out of his anti-psychotic medication.
What they're doing now, the last two or three days, I think they've created another crazy story claiming that he says all the vaccinated people will be dead within two years just to make him sound crazy.
He didn't say that, but by inserting that, claiming that he said it, they're denaturing, defanging his actual message that the virus was deliberate and stupid and dangerous.
What about his other message from the same interview, which he said that having a vaccination campaign during a pandemic is absolutely the dumbest thing a public health agency can do because it's actually causing the virus to mutate in order to avoid the vaccine and evolve.
And that's what's creating the new "variants." And in fact, it's making people more susceptible to dying from these new variants due to the antibody-dependent enhancement process.
Yeah, that's the sort of thing he says that they want to shut up by making him sound crazy.
Do you think there's any truth to that? Basically that these people are now more susceptible to dying from future encountering either another coronavirus or any virus really?
Because you said something similar about the flu vaccines, that some of the deaths from coronavirus were following flu vaccination campaigns.
Yeah, several studies have shown that people who were vaccinated for influenza the following season were much, much more likely to catch a coronavirus.
So you become partially immune to influenza, but instead you substitute increased susceptibility to coronavirus infection.
So the whole thing, all of the facts invalidate the claims both about influenza vaccines and the COVID.
So which one do you think is a bigger worry for a vaccinated person? The chronic inflammatory state, which these vaccines will probably trigger and keep for a long time, potentially for life, and even transgenerational? Or the potential for ADE when this person encounters another virus later on in their life?
The risk of exaggerated antibody intensification of symptoms, the risk is so great that even though we don't know how often it's going to happen,
it's just a very crazy risk to take for the world population.
So these people could die 10 years from now when they encounter a completely different virus, and of course you'll never be tied back to the vaccine they got 10 years ago?
Yeah.
I wanted to get your thoughts on the Israel-Palestine stuff, but one question I have for you about that is why, and maybe this is wrong, but why doesn't Israel give the Palestinians vaccines? Or is it some kind of reverse psychology thing that they're withholding vaccines from them?
I think part of the truth is probably that, like American, black people often look at the history of what the CDC has done experimenting on black people, experimenting in other countries,
doing experiments in the guise of a vaccine where really they're doing something else. And I think a lot of Palestinians are likewise fearful of being experimented on by the vaccinators.
So that would just be a no-sell immediately, like if Israel was like, "We have vaccines for Palestinians," they would never accept those?
If I was a Palestinian, I don't think I would.
I mean, there's actually documented cases around the world. I think in Afghanistan and Pakistan, they kicked out representatives of a World Health Organization because now they're firmly convinced that the vaccines that they're getting as donations from Western countries are intended to sterilize the population.
And we have now some evidence that the same thing is happening in Africa. So I don't think it's just the Palestinians that are mistrustful. It's kind of like a third world being always suspicious of the rich people and their attempts to provide benefits to the poor plebs. They will never take that openly.
Ray, I kind of understand why the elites here would want to depopulate the US, but why would they want to do that in Israel?
Well, they're set on getting rid of the Palestinians.
But why would Israel vaccinate its own citizens if the higher-ups, assuming that they understand that this vaccine is to harm people?
I'm not sure what they understand.
So Netanyahu doesn't think it's possible that he doesn't know it's for depopulation?
I think that's possible.
In other words, the elite may be sometimes stupid and not know what they have unleashed on themselves. Is that what I'm hearing?
Yeah, the elite isn't unified. They're on a world scale. They're unified in the sense of being a ruling class with its own interests.
But within that power system, there are constant subdivisions of power conflicts. And so you have to look at each country's power elite and how it relates to the others.
So like, Maxwell doesn't care about some Israeli citizen that, I don't know, shines shoes or something, just as much as a Rockefeller doesn't care about an American? Kind of the same type of thing?
Yeah. The European Jews have a very race-like discrimination against the Jews of other origins, especially African-originating Jews.
Interesting. Okay, so we have about eight minutes left. Is there anything that we should navigate to quickly before calling it a day?
Let me answer that question that I just said. What do you think about the ousting or throwing under the bus Bill Gates?
I haven't heard much about what's going on.
Well, he was framed as a womanizer, and then Melinda and him got a divorce, and now his name is like, the media is all over him as a bad person.
That has been coming out gradually ever since Epstein killed himself, supposedly.
The story was involving Bill Clinton and lots of the elite political crowd, and he was in it right from an early stage. It just takes time to develop.
I know that, but do you think he was impeding their goals? He has such a bad reputation now that they're like, "We need to do something to get this guy off the air," or something like that?
I know I'm asking you to speculate, but it just seems so odd that they turn on – that Epstein stuff has been around for a very long time, and then the media just automatically picks up on it now. It doesn't make any sense.
I think the media are in turmoil. They are confused by things leaking out that shouldn't have, and I think they are in the process of reorganizing and trying to find a new equilibrium that can be sustained.
But everything does seem to be falling apart.
I saw an article in Russia Today, which not many people read, but basically they're saying that Western media is largely collapsing due to – no pun intended – collapsing viewings and readings from the general population.
Nobody seems to be going to mainstream media anymore. I mean, an increasingly smaller percentage of people are reading it, which means less ad revenue, unless the government starts to pay the media directly to subsidize them. They don't really have a survival plan.
I think those forces are really stirring up confusion in the mass media on different sides.
Okay, absolute last thing, and then I'll read the super chats. Ray, I feel like the olive oil on the carrot or mushrooms is like a revelation. I think it works so much better than coconut oil. I think my digestion is the best it's ever been. The only thing that I can think of that I changed was the olive oil. Does that make sense?
Yeah, I noticed the same thing. There are allergenic properties in coconut that even extreme refining can miss, but olive oil in the unrefined state, it's a fruit oil, not a seed oil.
And as such, it brings with the oil a lot of anti-inflammatory, very protective intestinal redesigning and protecting drug effects.
One last food question for me, because since you brought up the food thing, Ray, I noticed you've commented in the past on orange peel as being very high in things like naringenin, hesperidin, etc.
What are your thoughts on orange peel wax, which is available as basically food grade material and it's got this really dark red, almost brownish color, which makes me think it's a concentrated form, basically dietary form of all these flavonoids.
What was it called?
Orange peel wax. It consists of about 50-60% of polycorsonils, basically, but its color is very dark red, almost like a brick, which makes me think it's high in these flavonoids that we know have protective effects.
It sounds good. I'll find out more about it. Meanwhile, marmalade tastes very good and has those same things.
So does the pulp need to be removed? It's only basically a thin scraping of the peel? Is that the beneficial part?
Pretty much the whole thing, the white stuff as well as the orange stuff, has those flavonoids.
Okay.
Thank you so much.
Pure Therapy for $4.99. Thank you so much, Pure Therapy.
Then there's one last one, I think, from Michelle for $50 as well.
Okay, I will send all of those to Ray. Let me do one more advertisement for Ray here.
The newsletter is available by email now. It's $28. You can send it to rayPeatsnewsletter@gmail.com.
And then you can purchase Progesterone Progestive from Keenogen by emailing keenogen@gmail.com. And each bottle contains 3,400 milligrams of progesterone.
Okay, that is the last thing. Ray, any parting words?
Nope.
And Georgi, any parting words?
Not really. I mean, I'm glad that the narrative is falling apart and hopefully the elite will consume itself and not force us to take matters into our own hands.
Cool. Okay. Ray, stay on the line. We'll just keep you for one minute extra.
Guys, thank you so much. Give this episode a like, share it online, et cetera.
We have an amazing listenership. Sincerely appreciate it. These are always extremely fun to do.
Sincere thanks to Ray. Sincere thanks to Georgi for making these possible and our amazing audience for also making it possible.
Thanks, everybody. Take care. Have a good weekend. Talk to you guys soon. Bye, everyone.
[Music]
[BLANK_AUDIO]